IBC Rate Limiting (#556)
Stride-Labs/stride: x/ratelimit/README.md

---
title: "RateLimit"
excerpt: ""
category: 6392913957c533007128548e
---
# RateLimit Module
## Overview

> This `ratelimit` module is a native golang implementation of Osmosis's CosmWasm [`ibc-rate-limit`](https://github.com/osmosis-labs/osmosis/tree/main/x/ibc-rate-limit) module. The module is meant as a safety control in the event of a bug or attack, and prevents massive inflows or outflows of IBC tokens to/from Stride in a short time frame. See [here](https://github.com/osmosis-labs/osmosis/tree/main/x/ibc-rate-limit#motivation) for an excellent summary by the Osmosis team on the motivation for rate limiting.

Author: great points, adjusted

    * For `Send` packets: 
    $$\text{Exceeds Quota if:} \left(\frac{\text{Outflow} - \text{Inflow} + \text{Packet Amount}}{\text{ChannelValue}}\right) > \text{MaxPercentSend}$$
    * For `Receive` packets: 
    $$\text{Exceeds Quota if:} \left(\frac{\text{Inflow} - \text{Outflow} + \text{Packet Amount}}{\text{ChannelValue}}\right) > \text{MaxPercentRecv}$$

## Example Walk-Through
Using the example above, let's say we created a 24 hour rate limit on `ibc/D24B4564BCD51D3D02D9987D92571EAC5915676A9BD6D9B0C1D0254CB8A5EA34` ("`ibc/uosmo`"), `channel-5`, with a 10% send and receive threshold. 
1. At the start of the window, the supply will be queried, to determine the channel value. Let's say the total supply was 100
2. If someone transferred `8uosmo` from `Osmosis -> Stride`, the `Inflow` would increment by 8
3. If someone tried to transfer another `8uosmo` from `Osmosis -> Stride`, it would exceed the quota since `(8+8)/100 = 16%` (which is greater than 10%) and thus, the transfer would be rejected.

> 4. If someone tried to transfer `12ibc/uosmo` from Stride -> Osmosis, the `Outflow` would increment by 12. Notice, even though 12 is greater than 10% the total channel value, the *net* outflow is only `4uatom` (since it's offset by the `8uatom` `Inflow`). As a result, this transaction would succeed.

Author: The idea is if inflows or outflows are handled separately, it opens the door for a DOS attack where someone sends assets back and forth and causes the channel to get throttled.

The osmo spec mentioned it [here](https://github.com/osmosis-labs/osmosis/tree/main/x/ibc-rate-limit#rate-limit-types). I can include it in ours as well

> 4. If someone tried to transfer `12ibc/uosmo` from Stride -> Osmosis, the `Outflow` would increment by 12. Notice, even though 12 is greater than 10% the total channel value, the *net* outflow is only `4uatom` (since it's offset by the `8uatom` `Inflow`). As a result, this transaction would succeed.

Reviewer: Ah, that's clever!

|   5  |      8usomo Osmosis → Stride     |    Successful   |   16   |    12   |     4%     |             |      100      |
|   6  |            Quota Reset           |                 |    0   |    0    |            |             |      104      |

## Denoms
We always want to refer to the channel ID and denom as they appear on Stride. For instance, in the example above, we would store the rate limit with denom `ibc/D24B4564BCD51D3D02D9987D92571EAC5915676A9BD6D9B0C1D0254CB8A5EA34` and `channel-5`, instead of `uosmo` and `channel-326` (the ChannelID on Osmosis).

However, since the ratelimit module acts as middleware to the transfer module, the respective denoms need to be interpreted using the denom trace associated with each packet. There are a few scenarios at play here...

### Send Packets
The denom that the rate limiter will use for a send packet depends on whether it was a native token (e.g. ustrd, stuatom, etc.) or non-native token (e.g. ibc/...)...
#### Native vs Non-Native
* We can identify if the token is native or not by parsing the denom trace from the packet
    * If the token is **native**, it **will not** have a prefix (e.g. `ustrd`)

>     * If the token is **non-native**, it **will** have a prefix (e.g. `transfer/channel-X/uosmo`)

Author: Can you elaborate? Are you asking if someone could create a denom with a portId, channelId and slashes?

>     * If the token is **non-native**, it **will** have a prefix (e.g. `transfer/channel-X/uosmo`)

Reviewer: Yeah - my guess is that this is not possible (or shouldn't be).

>     * If the token is **non-native**, it **will** have a prefix (e.g. `transfer/channel-X/uosmo`)

Author: I actually think it is possible! But I think in those cases, the `transfer/channel-X/thistokenwasminted` is the `BaseDenom` - I don't think it gets conflated with the prefix.

These types of denoms were actually mentioned in the ibc-go [migration docs](https://ibc.cosmos.network/main/migrations/support-denoms-with-slashes.html)

#### Determining the denom in the rate limit
* For **native** tokens, return as is (e.g. `ustrd`)
* For **non-native** tokens, take the ibc hash (e.g. hash `transfer/channel-X/uosmo` into `ibc/...`)

### Receive Packets
The denom that the rate limiter will use for a receive packet depends on whether it was a source or sink
#### Source vs Sink

> * **Source**: The packet is being received by a chain it was just sent from (i.e. the token has gone back and forth)

Author: I found the spec particularly confusing. That was my (failed) attempt to try and clarify it. 

How about this- kind of a hybrid of what I had and what you sent...

---

### Receive Packets
The denom that the rate limiter will use for a receive packet depends on whether it was a source or sink.

#### Source vs Sink
As a token travels across IBC chains, its path is recorded in the denom trace. 

* **Sink**: If the token moves **forward**, to a chain different than its previous hop, the destination chain acts as a **sink zone**, and the new port and channel are **appended** to the denom trace.
    * Ex1: `uatom` is sent from Cosmoshub to Stride 
      * Stride is the first destination for `uatom`, and acts as a sink zone
      * The IBC denom becomes the hash of: `/{stride-port)/{stride-channel}/uatom`
    * Ex2: `uatom` is sent from Cosmoshub to Osmosis then to Stride
      * Here the receiving chain (Stride) is not the same as the previous hop (Cosmoshub), so Stride, once again, is acting as a sink zone
      *  The IBC denom becomes the hash of: `/{stride-port)/{stride-channel}/{osmosis-port}/{osmosis-channel}/uatom`
   
* **Source**: If the token moves **backwards** (i.e. revisits the last chain it was sent from), the destination chain is acting as a **source zone**, and the port and channel are **removed** from the denom trace - undoing the last hop. Should a token reverse its course completely and head back along the same path to its native chain, the denom trace will unwind and reduce back down to the original base denom.
    * Ex1: `ustrd` is sent from Stride to Osmosis, and then back to Stride 
      * Here the trace reduces from `/{osmosis-port}/{osmosis-channel}/ustrd` to simply `ustrd`
    * Ex2: `ujuno` is sent to Stride, then to Osmosis, then back to Stride 
      * Here the trace reduces from `/{osmosis-port}/{osmosis-channel}/{stride-port}/{stride-channel}/ujuno` to just `/{stride-port}/{stride-channel}/ujuno` (the Osmosis hop is removed)
    * Stride is the source in the examples above because the token went back and forth from Stride -> Osmosis -> Stride

For a more detailed explanation, see the[ ICS-20 ADR](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/main/docs/architecture/adr-001-coin-source-tracing.md#example) and [spec](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc/tree/main/spec/app/ics-020-fungible-token-transfer).

    * Ex1: `strd` is sent from Stride to Osmosis, and then back to Stride 
    * Ex2: `ujuno` is sent to Stride, then to Osmosis, then back to Stride 
    * Stride is the source in the examples above because the token went back and forth from Stride -> Osmosis -> Stride
* **Sink**: The packet is being received by a chain that either created it or previous received it from somewhere else
    * Ex1: `uatom` is sent from Cosmoshub to Stride (`uatom` was created on Cosmoshub)
    * Ex2: `uatom` is sent from Cosmoshub to Osmosis then to Stride. Here the receiving chain (Stride) is not the same as the previous hop (Cosmoshub), so Stride is not acting as a source.
#### Determining the denom in the rate limit

> * If the chain is acting as a **Sink**: Add on the Stride port and channel and hash it

Reviewer: Nice example!

| Step |            Description           | Transfer Status | Inflow | Outflow | Net Inflow | Net Outflow | Channel Value |
|:----:|:--------------------------------:|:---------------:|:------:|:-------:|:----------:|:-----------:|:-------------:|
|   1  |        Rate limit created        |                 |    0   |    0    |            |             |      100      |
|   2  |      8usomo Osmosis → Stride     |    Successful   |    8   |    0    |     8%     |             |      100      |
|   3  |      8usomo Osmosis → Stride     |     Rejected    |   16   |    0    | 16% (>10%) |             |      100      |
|   3  | State reverted after rejected Tx |                 |    8   |    0    |     8%     |             |      100      |
|   4  |   12ibc/uosmo Stride → Osmosis   |    Successful   |    8   |    12   |            |      4%     |      100      |
|   5  |      8usomo Osmosis → Stride     |    Successful   |   16   |    12   |     4%     |             |      100      |
|   6  |            Quota Reset           |                 |    0   |    0    |            |             |      104      |

## Denom Blacklist

> The module also consists of a blacklist to completely halt all IBC transfers for a given denom. There are keeper functions to add or remove denoms from the blacklist; however, these functions are not exposed externally through transactions or governance, and they should only be leveraged internally from the protocol in extreme scenarios.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The module also contains a blacklist to completely halt all IBC transfers for a given denom. There are keeper functions to add or remove denoms from the blacklist; however, these functions are not exposed externally through transactions or governance, and they should only be leveraged internally from the protocol in extreme scenarios.
```
